[docs] Update README (#36265)
huggingface/transformers: README.md

</h4>

<h3 align="center">

>     <p>State-of-the-art pretrained models for inference and training</p>

Author: Removed mention of TF/JAX since it seems like we're kinda moving away from it. Let me know if you want me to keep it!

</h3>

<h3 align="center">
    <a href="https://hf.co/course"><img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/course_banner.png"></a>
</h3>

> Transformers is a library of pretrained natural language processing, computer vision, audio, video, and multimodal models for inference and training. Use Transformers to fine-tune models on your data, build inference applications, and for generative AI use cases across multiple modalities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transformers is a library of pretrained text, computer vision, audio, video, and multimodal models for inference and training. Use Transformers to fine-tune models on your data, build inference applications, and for generative AI use cases across multiple modalities.
```

> All 1M+ [model checkpoints](https://huggingface.co/models) from the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.com/models) are supported by Transformers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All 500k+ [model checkpoints tagged as `transormers`](https://huggingface.co/models?library=transformers&sort=trending) from the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.com/models) are supported by Transformers.
```

Explore the [Hub](https://huggingface.com/) today to find a model and use Transformers to help you get started right away.

## Installation

> Transformers works with Python 3.6+ [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) 1.1.0+, [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/pip) 2.0+, and [Flax](https://flax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

Reviewer: cc @ydshieh on a quick review re. latest supported versions (I think it's Python 3.8 and torch 2.0)

```py
# venv
python -m venv my-env
source ./my-env/bin/activate

# uv
uv venv my-env
source ./my-env/bin/activate
```

Install Transformers in your virtual environment.

```py
# pip
pip install transformers

# uv
uv pip install transformers
```

Install Transformers from source if you want the latest changes in the library or are interested in contributing. However, the *latest* version may not be stable. Feel free to open an [issue](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/issues) if you encounter an error.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git
cd transformers
pip install .
```

## Quickstart

Get started with Transformers right away with the [Pipeline](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/pipeline_tutorial) API. The `Pipeline` is a high-level inference class that supports text, audio, vision, and multimodal tasks. It handles preprocessing the input and returns the appropriate output.

Instantiate a pipeline and specify model to use for text generation. The model is downloaded and cached so you can easily reuse it again. Finally, pass some text to prompt the model.

```py
from transformers import pipeline

> pipeline = pipeline(task="text-generation", model="Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B")

Reviewer: Good choice of model!

- The training API is optimized to work with PyTorch models provided by Transformers. For generic machine learning loops, you should use another library like [Accelerate](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate).
- The [example scripts]((https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/main/examples)) are only *examples*. They may not necessarily work out-of-the-box on your specific use case and you'll need to adapt the code for it to work.

## 100 projects using Transformers

Transformers is more than a toolkit to use pretrained models, it's a community of projects built around it and the
Hugging Face Hub. We want Transformers to enable developers, researchers, students, professors, engineers, and anyone
else to build their dream projects.

In order to celebrate Transformers 100,000 stars, we wanted to put the spotlight on the
community with the [awesome-transformers](./awesome-transformers.md) page which lists 100
incredible projects built with Transformers.

If you own or use a project that you believe should be part of the list, please open a PR to add it!

> ## Example models

Author: Let me know if you think we're missing a task or we should highlight a different model!

You can test most of our models directly on their [Hub model pages](https://huggingface.co/models).

Expand each modality below to see a few example models for various use cases.

<details>
<summary>Audio</summary>

- Audio classification with [Whisper](https://huggingface.co/openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo)
- Automatic speech recognition with [Moonshine](https://huggingface.co/UsefulSensors/moonshine)
- Keyword spotting with [Wav2Vec2](https://huggingface.co/superb/wav2vec2-base-superb-ks)
- Speech to speech generation with [Moshi](https://huggingface.co/kyutai/moshiko-pytorch-bf16)
- Text to audio with [MusicGen](https://huggingface.co/facebook/musicgen-large)

> - Text to speech with [Bark](https://huggingface.co/suno/bark)

Reviewer: cc @eustlb @Vaibhavs10 in case you see better/others that would fit here

Author: gentle ping @eustlb @Vaibhavs10 if there are better audio models to add here :)

</details>

<details>
<summary>Computer vision</summary>

- Automatic mask generation with [SAM](https://huggingface.co/facebook/sam-vit-base)
- Depth estimation with [DepthPro](https://huggingface.co/apple/DepthPro-hf)
- Image classification with [DINO v2](https://huggingface.co/facebook/dinov2-base)
- Keypoint detection with [SuperGlue](https://huggingface.co/magic-leap-community/superglue_outdoor)
- Object detection with [RT-DETRv2](https://huggingface.co/PekingU/rtdetr_v2_r50vd)
- Universal segmentation with [OneFormer](https://huggingface.co/shi-labs/oneformer_ade20k_swin_large)

> - Video classification with [VideoMAE](https://huggingface.co/MCG-NJU/videomae-large)

Reviewer: cc @qubvel @merveenoyan in case you see better/others that would fit here

Reviewer 2: ```
 - Pose Estimation with [VitPose](https://huggingface.co/usyd-community/vitpose-base-simple)
 - Keypoint matching with [SuperGlue](https://huggingface.co/magic-leap-community/superglue)
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Multimodal</summary>

- Audio or text to text with [Qwen2-Audio](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-Audio-7B)
- Document question answering with [LayoutLMv3](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/layoutlmv3-base)
- Image or text to text with [Qwen-VL](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Instruct)
- Image captioning with [Llava](https://huggingface.co/llava-hf/llava-1.5-7b-hf)
- Table question answering with [TAPAS](https://huggingface.co/google/tapas-base)
- Unified multimodal understanding and generation with [Emu3](https://huggingface.co/BAAI/Emu3-Gen)
- Vision to text with [Llava-OneVision](https://huggingface.co/llava-hf/llava-onevision-qwen2-0.5b-ov-hf)

> - Visual question answering with [BLIP-2](https://huggingface.co/Salesforce/blip2-opt-2.7b)

Reviewer: cc @zucchini-nlp in case you see better/others that would fit here

Reviewer 3: Can change these two, imo BLIP better suits if captioning only task:
Image captioning with BLIP-2
Visual question answering with LLaVA

Plus maybe add these two, feel free to word choice this better:
OCR-based Document Understanding with GOT-OCR2 
Visual Referring Expression Segmentation with Kosmos2

</details>

<details>
<summary>NLP</summary>

- Masked word completion with [ModernBERT](https://huggingface.co/answerdotai/ModernBERT-base)
- Named entity recognition with [Gemma](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-2-2b)
- Question answering with [Mixtral](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-v0.1)
- Summarization with [BART](https://huggingface.co/facebook/bart-large-cnn)
- Translation with [T5](https://huggingface.co/google-t5/t5-base)
- Text generation with [Llama](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B)

> - Text classification with [Qwen](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B)

Reviewer: cc @ArthurZucker in case you see better/others that would fit here
